Damienbod/cert generation validation (#14176)
aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/authentication/certauth.md

### Azure and custom web proxies

See the [host and deploy documentation](xref:host-and-deploy/proxy-load-balancer#certificate-forwarding) for how to configure the certificate forwarding middleware.

### Use certificate authentication with the X-ARR-ClientCert header

> The `AddCertificateForwarding` method is used so that the client header can be specified and how the certificate is to be loaded using the `HeaderConverter` option. When sending the certificate with the `HttpClient` using the default settings, the `ClientCertificate` will always be null. The `X-ARR-ClientCert` header is used to pass the client certificate. The certificate is passed as a string to work around this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `AddCertificateForwarding` method is used to specify:

* The client header name.
* How the certificate is to be loaded (using the `HeaderConverter` property).

When sending the certificate with the `HttpClient` using the default settings, the `ClientCertificate` will always be null. The `X-ARR-ClientCert` header is used to pass the client certificate. The certificate is passed as a string to work around this problem.
```

```csharp
services.AddCertificateForwarding(options =>
{
	options.CertificateHeader = "X-ARR-ClientCert";
	options.HeaderConverter = (headerValue) =>
	{
		X509Certificate2 clientCertificate = null;
		if(!string.IsNullOrWhiteSpace(headerValue))
		{
			byte[] bytes = StringToByteArray(headerValue);
			clientCertificate = new X509Certificate2(bytes);
		}

		return clientCertificate;
	};
});
```

> The `Startup.Configure` method then adds the middleware. `UseCertificateForwarding` is added before the calls to `UseAuthentication` and `UseAuthorization`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Startup.Configure` method then adds the middleware. `UseCertificateForwarding` is called before the calls to `UseAuthentication` and `UseAuthorization`.
```

### Create certificates in PowerShell

Creating the certificates is the hardest part in setting up this flow. A self-signed root certificate authority (CA) certificate is created using the `New-SelfSignedCertificate` PowerShell cmdlet. When creating the certificate, use a strong password. It's important to add the `KeyUsageProperty` parameter and the `KeyUsage` parameter as shown.

#### Create root CA

```powershell
New-SelfSignedCertificate -DnsName "root_ca_dev_damienbod.com", "root_ca_dev_damienbod.com" -CertStoreLocation "cert:\LocalMachine\My" -NotAfter (Get-Date).AddYears(20) -FriendlyName "root_ca_dev_damienbod.com" -KeyUsageProperty All -KeyUsage CertSign, CRLSign, DigitalSignature

$mypwd = ConvertTo-SecureString -String "1234" -Force -AsPlainText

Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." | Export-PfxCertificate -FilePath C:\git\root_ca_dev_damienbod.pfx -Password $mypwd

Export-Certificate -Cert cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." -FilePath root_ca_dev_damienbod.crt
```

#### Install in the trusted root

> 

Reviewer: There should be some text here that explains why the link is useful.

> https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/Forums/SqlServer/en-US/5ed119ef-1704-4be4-8a4f-ef11de7c8f34/a-certificate-chain-processed-but-terminated-in-a-root-certificate-which-is-not-trusted-by-the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/Forums/SqlServer/5ed119ef-1704-4be4-8a4f-ef11de7c8f34/a-certificate-chain-processed-but-terminated-in-a-root-certificate-which-is-not-trusted-by-the
```

#### Intermediate certificate

> A self-signed, intermediate certificate can now be created from the root certificate. This isn't required for all use cases, but you might need to create many certificates or need to activate, disable groups of certificates. The `TextExtension` parameter is required to set the pathlength in the basic constraints of the certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A self-signed, intermediate certificate can now be created from the root certificate. This isn't required for all use cases, but you might need to create many certificates or need to activate or disable groups of certificates. The `TextExtension` parameter is required to set the path length in the basic constraints of the certificate.
```

### Azure and custom web proxies

See the [host and deploy documentation](xref:host-and-deploy/proxy-load-balancer#certificate-forwarding) for how to configure the certificate forwarding middleware.

> ### Use certificate authentication with the X-ARR-ClientCert header

Reviewer 2: I think this would be better titled as Using certificate authentication in Azure Web Applications. The header name is too technical for a title.

Author: fixed

The `AddCertificateForwarding` method is used to specify:

* The client header name.
* How the certificate is to be loaded (using the `HeaderConverter` property).

> When sending the certificate with the `HttpClient` using the default settings, the `ClientCertificate` will always be null. The `X-ARR-ClientCert` header is used to pass the client certificate. The certificate is passed as a string to work around this problem.

Reviewer 2: Too much implementation detail. Just say "In Azure Web Applications the certificate is passed as a custom header, X-ARR-ClientCert. In order to use it you must configure certificate forwarding.

Author: fixed

The `Startup.Configure` method then adds the middleware. `UseCertificateForwarding` is called before the calls to `UseAuthentication` and `UseAuthorization`.

```csharp
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
	...
	
	app.UseRouting();

	app.UseCertificateForwarding();
	app.UseAuthentication();
	app.UseAuthorization();

	app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
	{
		endpoints.MapControllers();
	});
}
```

A separate class can be used to implement validation logic. Because the same self-signed certificate is used in this example, ensure that only your certificate can be used. Validate that the thumbprints of both the client certificate and the server certificate match, otherwise any certificate can be used and will be enough to authenticate. This would be used inside the `AddCertificate` method. You could also validate the subject or the issuer here if you're using intermediate or child certificates.

```csharp
using System.IO;
using System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates;

namespace AspNetCoreCertificateAuthApi
{
    public class MyCertificateValidationService
    {
        public bool ValidateCertificate(X509Certificate2 clientCertificate)
        {

>             var cert = new X509Certificate2(Path.Combine("sts_dev_cert.pfx"), "1234");

Reviewer 2: No hard coded passwords. I know it's an example, so just hardcode a thumbprint :)

Author: Added text:
Do not hardcode passwords in production code, use thumbprint or key vault

If you want, I could also change this to use the local store to get the thumbprint

            if (clientCertificate.Thumbprint == cert.Thumbprint)
            {
                return true;
            }

            return false;
        }
    }
}
```

#### Implement an HttpClient using a certificate

The web API client uses an `HttpClient` which was created using an `IHttpClientFactory` instance. This doesn't provide a way to define a handler for the `HttpClient`, so use an `HttpRequestMessage` to add the certificate to the `X-ARR-ClientCert` request header. The certificate is added as a string using the `GetRawCertDataString` method.
 
```csharp
private async Task<JsonDocument> GetApiDataAsync()
{
	try
	{

> 		var cert = new X509Certificate2(Path.Combine(_environment.ContentRootPath, "sts_dev_cert.pfx"), "1234");

Reviewer 2: Again hard coded password. Add a comment saying // Do no hardcode passwords in production code

Author: Added text:
Do not hardcode passwords in production code, use thumbprint or key vault

If you want, I could also change this to use the local store to get the thumbprint

		var client = _clientFactory.CreateClient();

		var request = new HttpRequestMessage()
		{
			RequestUri = new Uri("https://localhost:44379/api/values"),
			Method = HttpMethod.Get,
		};

		request.Headers.Add("X-ARR-ClientCert", cert.GetRawCertDataString());
		var response = await client.SendAsync(request);

		if (response.IsSuccessStatusCode)
		{
			var responseContent = await response.Content.ReadAsStringAsync();
			var data = JsonDocument.Parse(responseContent);

			return data;
		}

		throw new ApplicationException($"Status code: {response.StatusCode}, Error: {response.ReasonPhrase}");
	}
	catch (Exception e)
	{
		throw new ApplicationException($"Exception {e}");
	}
}
```

If the correct certificate is sent to the server, the data is returned. If no certificate or the wrong certificate is sent, an HTTP 403 status code is returned.

### Create certificates in PowerShell

> Creating the certificates is the hardest part in setting up this flow. A self-signed root certificate authority (CA) certificate is created using the `New-SelfSignedCertificate` PowerShell cmdlet. When creating the certificate, use a strong password. It's important to add the `KeyUsageProperty` parameter and the `KeyUsage` parameter as shown.

Reviewer 2: You go from self signed to root cas too quickly. Needs an explanation of what the difference is and why you would use one over the other.

Author: updated

#### Create root CA

```powershell
New-SelfSignedCertificate -DnsName "root_ca_dev_damienbod.com", "root_ca_dev_damienbod.com" -CertStoreLocation "cert:\LocalMachine\My" -NotAfter (Get-Date).AddYears(20) -FriendlyName "root_ca_dev_damienbod.com" -KeyUsageProperty All -KeyUsage CertSign, CRLSign, DigitalSignature

$mypwd = ConvertTo-SecureString -String "1234" -Force -AsPlainText

Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." | Export-PfxCertificate -FilePath C:\git\root_ca_dev_damienbod.pfx -Password $mypwd

Export-Certificate -Cert cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." -FilePath root_ca_dev_damienbod.crt
```

#### Install in the trusted root

> The root certificate needs to be trusted on your host system. A self-signed certificate won't be trusted by default. The following link explains how this can be accomplished on Windows:

Reviewer 2: Again mixing self signed and roots.

Author: removed the self signed and updted to use root cert

> The root certificate needs to be trusted on your host system and a self-signed certificate will not be trusted per default. The following link explains how this could be done on a windows operating system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The root certificate needs to be trusted on your host system. A self-signed certificate won't be trusted by default. The following link explains how this can be accomplished on Windows:
```

Export-Certificate -Cert cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." -FilePath intermediate_dev_damienbod.crt
```

#### Create child certificate from intermediate certificate

A child certificate can be created from the intermediate certificate. This is the end entity and doesn't need to create more child certificates.

```powershell
$parentcert = ( Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\LocalMachine\My\"The thumbprint from the Intermediate certificate..." )

New-SelfSignedCertificate -certstorelocation cert:\localmachine\my -dnsname "child_a_dev_damienbod.com" -Signer $parentcert -NotAfter (Get-Date).AddYears(20) -FriendlyName "child_a_dev_damienbod.com"

$mypwd = ConvertTo-SecureString -String "1234" -Force -AsPlainText

Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." | Export-PfxCertificate -FilePath C:\git\AspNetCoreCertificateAuth\Certs\child_a_dev_damienbod.pfx -Password $mypwd

Export-Certificate -Cert cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." -FilePath child_a_dev_damienbod.crt
```

#### Create child certificate from root certificate

> A child certificate can also be created from the root certificate directly. If you don't have many web API clients, the following script can be used.

Reviewer 2: What does the number of clients have to do with this?

Author: removed this text, I was thinking that the amount of child certificates which can be created is limited, and also that the management of these certificates would become hard in a flat structure for lots of certs

New-SelfSignedCertificate -certstorelocation cert:\localmachine\my -dnsname "child_b_from_a_dev_damienbod.com" -Signer $parentcert -NotAfter (Get-Date).AddYears(20) -FriendlyName "child_b_from_a_dev_damienbod.com" 

Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\localMachine\my\141594A0AE38CBBECED7AF680F7945CD51D8F28A | Export-PfxCertificate -FilePath C:\git\AspNetCoreCertificateAuth\Certs\child_b_from_a_dev_damienbod.pfx -Password $mypwd

Export-Certificate -Cert cert:\localMachine\my\141594A0AE38CBBECED7AF680F7945CD51D8F28A -FilePath child_b_from_a_dev_damienbod.crt
```

When using the root, intermediate, or child certificates, the certificates can be validated using the Issuer or the Subject as required.

```csharp
using System.IO;
using System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates;

namespace AspNetCoreCertificateAuthApi
{
    public class MyCertificateValidationService
    {
        private readonly X509Certificate2 rootCertificate = new X509Certificate2(Path.Combine("root_ca_dev_damienbod.pfx"), "1234");
        private readonly X509Certificate2 intermediateCertificate = new X509Certificate2(Path.Combine("child_a_dev_damienbod.pfx"), "1234");

>         public bool ValidateCertificate(X509Certificate2 clientCertificate)

Reviewer 2: Given that an attacker can duplication subject names this is not a good validation procedure. Compare thumbprints or the public keys.

Author: Updated to use thumbprints

### Azure and custom web proxies

See the [host and deploy documentation](xref:host-and-deploy/proxy-load-balancer#certificate-forwarding) for how to configure the certificate forwarding middleware.

> ### Using certificate authentication with the X-ARR-ClientCert header

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use certificate authentication with the X-ARR-ClientCert header
```

Author: fixed thanks @scottaddie

> The AddCertificateForwarding method is used so that the client header can be specified and how the certificate is to be loaded using the HeaderConverter option. When sending the certificate with the HttpClient using the default settings, the ClientCertificate was always be null. The X-ARR-ClientCert header is used to pass the client certificate, and the cert is passed as a string to work around this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `AddCertificateForwarding` method is used so that the client header can be specified and how the certificate is to be loaded using the `HeaderConverter` option. When sending the certificate with the `HttpClient` using the default settings, the `ClientCertificate` will always be null. The `X-ARR-ClientCert` header is used to pass the client certificate. The certificate is passed as a string to work around this.
```

```csharp
services.AddCertificateForwarding(options =>
{
	options.CertificateHeader = "X-ARR-ClientCert";
	options.HeaderConverter = (headerValue) =>
	{
		X509Certificate2 clientCertificate = null;
		if(!string.IsNullOrWhiteSpace(headerValue))
		{
			byte[] bytes = StringToByteArray(headerValue);
			clientCertificate = new X509Certificate2(bytes);
		}

		return clientCertificate;
	};
});
```

> The Configure method then adds the middleware. UseCertificateForwarding is added before the UseAuthentication and the UseAuthorization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Startup.Configure` method then adds the middleware. `UseCertificateForwarding` is added before the calls to `UseAuthentication` and `UseAuthorization`.
```

Author: fixed

```csharp
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
	...
	
	app.UseRouting();

	app.UseCertificateForwarding();
	app.UseAuthentication();
	app.UseAuthorization();

	app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
	{
		endpoints.MapControllers();
	});
}
```

> A separate class can be used to implement validation logic. Because we are using the same self signed certificate in this example, we need to ensure that only our certificate can be used. We validate that the thumbprints of the client certificate and also the server one match, otherwise any certificate can be used and will be be enough to authenticate. This would be used inside the AddCertificate method. You could also validate the subject or the issuer here, if you are using intermediate or child certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A separate class can be used to implement validation logic. Because the same self-signed certificate is used in this example, ensure that only your certificate can be used. Validate that the thumbprints of both the client certificate and the server certificate match, otherwise any certificate can be used and will be enough to authenticate. This would be used inside the `AddCertificate` method. You could also validate the subject or the issuer here if you're using intermediate or child certificates.

```

Author: done

```csharp
using System.IO;
using System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates;

namespace AspNetCoreCertificateAuthApi
{
    public class MyCertificateValidationService
    {
        public bool ValidateCertificate(X509Certificate2 clientCertificate)
        {
            var cert = new X509Certificate2(Path.Combine("sts_dev_cert.pfx"), "1234");
            if (clientCertificate.Thumbprint == cert.Thumbprint)
            {
                return true;
            }

            return false;
        }
    }
}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: ok

```

> #### Implementing a HttpClient using a certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Implement an HttpClient using a certificate
```

Author: fixed

> The client of the API uses a HttpClient which was create using an instance of the IHttpClientFactory. This does not provide a way to define a handler for the HttpClient and so we use a HttpRequestMessage to add the Certificate to the "X-ARR-ClientCert" request header. The cert is added as a string using the GetRawCertDataString method. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The web API client uses an `HttpClient` which was created using an `IHttpClientFactory` instance. This doesn't provide a way to define a handler for the `HttpClient`, so use an `HttpRequestMessage` to add the certificate to the `X-ARR-ClientCert` request header. The certificate is added as a string using the `GetRawCertDataString` method. 
```

 
```csharp

> private async Task<JArray> GetApiDataAsync()

Reviewer: Bonus points if we can use something in `System.Text.Json` instead Json.NET's `JArray` type.

Author: switched to JsonDocument

{
	try
	{
		var cert = new X509Certificate2(Path.Combine(_environment.ContentRootPath, "sts_dev_cert.pfx"), "1234");

		var client = _clientFactory.CreateClient();

		var request = new HttpRequestMessage()
		{
			RequestUri = new Uri("https://localhost:44379/api/values"),
			Method = HttpMethod.Get,
		};

		request.Headers.Add("X-ARR-ClientCert", cert.GetRawCertDataString());
		var response = await client.SendAsync(request);

		if (response.IsSuccessStatusCode)
		{
			var responseContent = await response.Content.ReadAsStringAsync();

> 			var data = JArray.Parse(responseContent);

Reviewer: `JsonDocument.Parse` might work here

Author: switch to JsonDocument

			return data;
		}

		throw new ApplicationException($"Status code: {response.StatusCode}, Error: {response.ReasonPhrase}");
	}
	catch (Exception e)
	{
		throw new ApplicationException($"Exception {e}");
	}
}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> If the correct certificate is sent to the server, the data will be returned. If no certificate is sent, or the wrong certificate, then a 403 will be returned. It would be nice if the IHttpClientFactory would have a way of defining a handler for the HttpClient. I also believe a non valid certificates should fail per default and not require extra validation for this. The AddCertificateForwarding should also not be required to use for a default HTTPClient client calling the service. 

Reviewer: Removing the verbiage that seems like opinion.

```suggestion
If the correct certificate is sent to the server, the data is returned. If no certificate or the wrong certificate is sent, an HTTP 403 status code is returned.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Creating certificates in powershell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create certificates in PowerShell
```

> Creating the certificates is the hardest part in setting up this flow. A self signed Root CA Certificate is created using the New-SelfSignedCertificate powershell cmdlet. When creating this, please use a strong password, replace the demo one, do not just copy the code. It is important to add the KeyUsageProperty parameter and the KeyUsage parameter as shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating the certificates is the hardest part in setting up this flow. A self-signed root certificate authority (CA) certificate is created using the `New-SelfSignedCertificate` PowerShell cmdlet. When creating the certificate, use a strong password. It's important to add the `KeyUsageProperty` parameter and the `KeyUsage` parameter as shown.
```

> #### Create Root CA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create root CA
```

Author: ok

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```powershell
```

New-SelfSignedCertificate -DnsName "root_ca_dev_damienbod.com", "root_ca_dev_damienbod.com" -CertStoreLocation "cert:\LocalMachine\My" -NotAfter (Get-Date).AddYears(20) -FriendlyName "root_ca_dev_damienbod.com" -KeyUsageProperty All -KeyUsage CertSign, CRLSign, DigitalSignature

$mypwd = ConvertTo-SecureString -String "1234" -Force -AsPlainText

Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." | Export-PfxCertificate -FilePath C:\git\root_ca_dev_damienbod.pfx -Password $mypwd

Export-Certificate -Cert cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." -FilePath root_ca_dev_damienbod.crt

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

#### Install in the trusted root

https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/Forums/SqlServer/en-US/5ed119ef-1704-4be4-8a4f-ef11de7c8f34/a-certificate-chain-processed-but-terminated-in-a-root-certificate-which-is-not-trusted-by-the

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Intermediate certificate

> A self signed intermediate certificate can now be created from the root certificate. This is not required for all use cases, but you might need to create many certificates or need to activate, disable groups of certificates. The TextExtension parameter is required to set the pathlength in the basic constraints of the certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A self-signed, intermediate certificate can now be created from the root certificate. This isn't required for all use cases, but you might need to create many certificates or need to activate, disable groups of certificates. The `TextExtension` parameter is required to set the pathlength in the basic constraints of the certificate.
```

> The intermediate certificate can then be added to the trusted intermediate certificate in the windows host system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The intermediate certificate can then be added to the trusted intermediate certificate in the Windows host system.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```powershell
```

$mypwd = ConvertTo-SecureString -String "1234" -Force -AsPlainText

$parentcert = ( Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\LocalMachine\My\"The thumbprint of the root..." )

New-SelfSignedCertificate -certstorelocation cert:\localmachine\my -dnsname "intermediate_dev_damienbod.com" -Signer $parentcert -NotAfter (Get-Date).AddYears(20) -FriendlyName "intermediate_dev_damienbod.com" -KeyUsageProperty All -KeyUsage CertSign, CRLSign, DigitalSignature -TextExtension @("2.5.29.19={text}CA=1&pathlength=1")

Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." | Export-PfxCertificate -FilePath C:\git\AspNetCoreCertificateAuth\Certs\intermediate_dev_damienbod.pfx -Password $mypwd

Export-Certificate -Cert cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." -FilePath intermediate_dev_damienbod.crt

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> #### Create Child Cert from Intermediate certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create child certificate from intermediate certificate
```

>  child certificate can be created from the intermediate certificate. This is the end entity and does not need to create more child certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A child certificate can be created from the intermediate certificate. This is the end entity and doesn't need to create more child certificates.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```powershell
```

$parentcert = ( Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\LocalMachine\My\"The thumbprint from the Intermediate certificate..." )

New-SelfSignedCertificate -certstorelocation cert:\localmachine\my -dnsname "child_a_dev_damienbod.com" -Signer $parentcert -NotAfter (Get-Date).AddYears(20) -FriendlyName "child_a_dev_damienbod.com"

$mypwd = ConvertTo-SecureString -String "1234" -Force -AsPlainText

Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." | Export-PfxCertificate -FilePath C:\git\AspNetCoreCertificateAuth\Certs\child_a_dev_damienbod.pfx -Password $mypwd

Export-Certificate -Cert cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." -FilePath child_a_dev_damienbod.crt

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> #### Create Child Cert from Root

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create child certificate from root certificate
```

> A child certificate can also be created from the root certificate directly. If you do not have many API clients, this could be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A child certificate can also be created from the root certificate directly. If you don't have many web API clients, the following script can be used.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```powershell
```

$rootcert = ( Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\LocalMachine\My\"The thumbprint from the root cert..." )

New-SelfSignedCertificate -certstorelocation cert:\localmachine\my -dnsname "child_a_dev_damienbod.com" -Signer $rootcert -NotAfter (Get-Date).AddYears(20) -FriendlyName "child_a_dev_damienbod.com"

$mypwd = ConvertTo-SecureString -String "1234" -Force -AsPlainText

Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." | Export-PfxCertificate -FilePath C:\git\AspNetCoreCertificateAuth\Certs\child_a_dev_damienbod.pfx -Password $mypwd

Export-Certificate -Cert cert:\localMachine\my\"The thumbprint..." -FilePath child_a_dev_damienbod.crt

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> #### Example root - Intermediate certificate - certificate

Reviewer: This heading is a bit confusing. Not sure what it's intended to mean.

```suggestion
#### Example root - intermediate certificate - certificate
```

Author: fixed

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```powershell
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\localMachine\my\BA9BF91ED35538A01375EFC212A2F46104B33A44 | Export-PfxCertificate -FilePath C:\git\AspNetCoreCertificateAuth\Certs\child_a_dev_damienbod.pfx -Password $mypwd

Export-Certificate -Cert cert:\localMachine\my\BA9BF91ED35538A01375EFC212A2F46104B33A44 -FilePath child_a_dev_damienbod.crt

$parentcert = ( Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\LocalMachine\My\BA9BF91ED35538A01375EFC212A2F46104B33A44 )

New-SelfSignedCertificate -certstorelocation cert:\localmachine\my -dnsname "child_b_from_a_dev_damienbod.com" -Signer $parentcert -NotAfter (Get-Date).AddYears(20) -FriendlyName "child_b_from_a_dev_damienbod.com" 

Get-ChildItem -Path cert:\localMachine\my\141594A0AE38CBBECED7AF680F7945CD51D8F28A | Export-PfxCertificate -FilePath C:\git\AspNetCoreCertificateAuth\Certs\child_b_from_a_dev_damienbod.pfx -Password $mypwd

Export-Certificate -Cert cert:\localMachine\my\141594A0AE38CBBECED7AF680F7945CD51D8F28A -FilePath child_b_from_a_dev_damienbod.crt

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> When using the root, intermediate or child certificates, the certs can be validated using the Issuer or the Subject as requires.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the root, intermediate, or child certificates, the certificates can be validated using the Issuer or the Subject as required.
```

### Azure and custom web proxies

See the [host and deploy documentation](xref:host-and-deploy/proxy-load-balancer#certificate-forwarding) for how to configure the certificate forwarding middleware.

> ### Using certificate authentication in Azure Web Applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use certificate authentication in Azure Web Apps
```

Author: fixed

The `AddCertificateForwarding` method is used to specify:

* The client header name.
* How the certificate is to be loaded (using the `HeaderConverter` property).

> In Azure Web Applications the certificate is passed as a custom header, X-ARR-ClientCert. In order to use it you must configure certificate forwarding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Azure Web Apps, the certificate is passed as a custom request header named `X-ARR-ClientCert`. To use it, configure certificate forwarding in `Startup.ConfigureServices`:
```

Author: fixed

```csharp
services.AddCertificateForwarding(options =>
{
	options.CertificateHeader = "X-ARR-ClientCert";
	options.HeaderConverter = (headerValue) =>
	{
		X509Certificate2 clientCertificate = null;
		if(!string.IsNullOrWhiteSpace(headerValue))
		{
			byte[] bytes = StringToByteArray(headerValue);
			clientCertificate = new X509Certificate2(bytes);
		}

		return clientCertificate;
	};
});
```

> The `Startup.Configure` method then adds the middleware. `UseCertificateForwarding` is called before the calls to `UseAuthentication` and `UseAuthorization`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Startup.Configure` method then adds the middleware. `UseCertificateForwarding` is called before the calls to `UseAuthentication` and `UseAuthorization`:
```

Author: fixed

		endpoints.MapControllers();
	});
}
```

A separate class can be used to implement validation logic. Because the same self-signed certificate is used in this example, ensure that only your certificate can be used. Validate that the thumbprints of both the client certificate and the server certificate match, otherwise any certificate can be used and will be enough to authenticate. This would be used inside the `AddCertificate` method. You could also validate the subject or the issuer here if you're using intermediate or child certificates.

```csharp
using System.IO;
using System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates;

namespace AspNetCoreCertificateAuthApi
{
    public class MyCertificateValidationService
    {
        public bool ValidateCertificate(X509Certificate2 clientCertificate)
        {
			// Do not hardcode passwords in production code, use thumbprint or key vault
            var cert = new X509Certificate2(Path.Combine("sts_dev_cert.pfx"), "1234");
            if (clientCertificate.Thumbprint == cert.Thumbprint)
            {
                return true;
            }

            return false;
        }
    }
}
```

#### Implement an HttpClient using a certificate

> The web API client uses an `HttpClient` which was created using an `IHttpClientFactory` instance. This doesn't provide a way to define a handler for the `HttpClient`, so use an `HttpRequestMessage` to add the certificate to the `X-ARR-ClientCert` request header. The certificate is added as a string using the `GetRawCertDataString` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The web API client uses an `HttpClient`, which was created using an `IHttpClientFactory` instance. This doesn't provide a way to define a handler for the `HttpClient`, so use an `HttpRequestMessage` to add the certificate to the `X-ARR-ClientCert` request header. The certificate is added as a string using the `GetRawCertDataString` method.
```

Author: fixed
